Welcome to the
eLearning session,
"Getting Started with Ensemble--
Business Services and Business
Operations."
This session will cover
configuring Business Service
and Business Operation
components of an Ensemble
Production to communicate
with applications
external to Ensemble.
A Business Service handles
inbound connections,
while a Business Operation
handles outbound connections.
Common protocols,
such as X12 and HL7
are supported by pre-built
Business Services and Business
Operations.
But in many cases,
users will want
to build their own custom
Business Services and Business
Operations.
This is a programming task
in the Ensemble Studio.
In many cases, it's
a fairly simple task.
But like any programming, it can
become as complex as required
by your Ensemble solution.
Let's first look at creating
a custom Business Operation
and adding it to a Production.
And adapter can be used to
handle the specific technology
and protocol to communicate
with the external applications,
such as SQL, Web Services,
email, or an operating system
file.
The Message Map
defines which method
handles a request message type.
The general idea
is that you will
use the Studio wizard
to create a class that
is a subclass of
ENS.BusinessOperation,
and select the appropriate
outbound adapter.
You can then implement a method,
as defined in the Message Map,
to handle each type of
message the Business Operation
receives.
Typically, your method will
call methods of the adapter
to do most of the work.
We will use Studio to create
a very simple Business
Operation that receives
an object with a property
containing a line of
text and sends this
to an email recipient.
We will make the email subject
a configurable setting.
In Studio we will
choose File, New.
And in the production tab we
will select Business Operation.
The class will be eLearning.
And the class name
will be MailOperation.
When I click Next,
I'll be able to choose
the email outbound adapter and
create the SendLine method that
will receive a request
type of ENS.StringRequest.
The class that gets
created extends
from ENS.BusinessOperation.
The ADAPTER parameter
and Adapter property
have been properly set for
an email outbound adapter.
We also have a stub for
the SendLiine method.
We will add our code
in just a moment.
We also have the
Message Map created
that identifies when a
string request is received
to call the SendLine method.
I have added the code
for the SendLine method.
We are creating a
mail message object.
Identifying this
subject-- at this time
it will be eLearning
demonstration.
We take the string
value of our request
object that comes
into this method
and that becomes the
text of our message.
Then we send the email using
the email outbound adapter
to accomplish this.
The recipient location of the
SMTP server and other details
could be programmed
here as well.
But I will add them to
the configuration settings
once this Business
Operation is added
to my Ensemble Production.
Now, at this point, we've
hard coded the subject.
We're going to
add some code that
will allow us to put the
subject into the configuration
settings.
So I will add a new
parameter and a new property.
I can now modify my subject to
be set from the configuration
settings.
I'll comment out
my original code
so we have that as a reference
and add additional code.
If you want this
Business Operation
to handle different
types of requests,
you can add a new message
type to the Message Map
and implement the appropriate
method to handle this.
Once I compile the
class, we won't
be able to add it to
our Ensemble Production.
Let's go to the Ensemble
Management Portal
so we can add this Business
Operation to the Production.
Here's an empty Production
that is already running.
And I'm going to add the
Business Operation we just
created.
I will call it MailOperation.
And it will be Enabled.
In my settings for
the MailOperation,
I can define the SMTP server.
My credentials that
I've already set up,
as a cell configuration, could
be added here if required.
And I can identify the recipient
of an email, who its from.
My configurable Subject can
be filled in right here.
And we can Apply this.
At this time, we should test
to make sure this works.
So I'll go to the Actions
tab and choose Test.
And since this operation
takes a string request,
I have a window that allows
me to enter my string request
and invoke the testing service.
And we have a
successful completion
of our Business Operation.
Now let's look at
a Business Service.
A Business Service accepts input
from external applications,
either directly or via
an inbound adapter.
Adapters can be configured to
look for input on a time basis
or to listen on a TCP/IP socket.
When it has input the
process, the adapter
calls the ProcessInput method
of the Business Service,
which in turn calls the
OnProcessInput method.
If you're writing a
custom Business Service,
you must write the
OnProcessInput method
to handle the work of
processing the inbound request
and calling either a Business
Process or a Business
Operation.
If you specify an adapter,
the Business Services
started when the
Production is started
and will continue listening
or pulling for information.
If you don't use an adapter,
the Business Service
must be instantiated from some
Ensemble application code.
This could be a web service,
a web page, stored procedure,
or any other freestanding
Ensemble application.
Let's go back to Studio and
create a custom Business
Service that uses an adapter.
So I will click File, New.
And in the Production tab, I
will select Business Service.
eLearning will still
be the package name,
but the class name will
be MyBusinessService.
I will now choose the
file inbound adapter.
And when I click Finish,
my class is created.
And you can see
that this inherits
from ENS.BusinessService the
ADAPTER parameter has been set
for the file inbound adapter.
And I have a basic template
for the OnProcessInput method.
And since we are using
file inbound adapter,
the wizard knows that my
input will be a stream object.
In the case of the
file inbound adapter,
OnProcessInput is called
once for every file picked up
by the adapter.
And the entire
contents of the file
is passed to the
method as a stream.
So we need to process
each line in the file,
create an appropriate
request message
to be sent to either a
Business Process or a Business
Operation.
If my adapter required
a return message,
I would need to construct
that object as my output
property for unprocessed input.
However, the file
inbound adapter
does not expect any
type of response.
And anything sent back
to it will be ignored.
Here, I've added the code for
the OnProcessInput method.
We are looping through every
line in the stream object.
The ReadLine method
of my stream object
will return each line,
one line at a time,
into my input line variable.
I then create a
new string request,
insert my text into the string
value of that string request,
and send this request
asynchronously
to the MailOperation
Business Operation
that we created earlier.
Once I compile my
Business Service,
I can then add it
to my Production.
So let's return to
the Ensemble Portal
and go to Add the
Business Service.
And we will select the Business
Service we just created.
And we will call it
MyBusinessService.
And it will be Enabled.
Now we can select this Business
Service and apply the settings.
We will define a File Path
for the messages coming in
and the File Spec for any file
that is in that directory.
And we will pick up anything
that is a text file.
The Archive Path is
where the message
will be stored once it
has been processed so we
have a backup copy of that.
And we'll Apply these settings.
By clicking on the green
dot next to our service,
we can see visually
that MyBusinessService
is sending its message
to the mail operation.
So once we put a file into
the appropriate directory,
in this case the
inbound directory,
and the Business
Service picks it up,
it will pass that information
onto the MailOperation
as a string request, which will
then in turn send the email.
So let's test this.
If we take a look at
the inbound directory,
you can see that it is empty.
We will create a
simple text file
and store it in the inbound
directory, where the Business
Service will pick it
up and process it.
As you can see, the
Business Service
has picked up my test message,
processed it, sent the email,
and put a duplicate into
my archive directory.
You have been watching
"Getting Started
with Ensemble-- Business
Services and Business
Operations."